I get asked this question a lot.  Configuring a LAN interface is
unfortunately complex because you have to do a bunch of different
things to get one up and running.  However, it can be done.

First, I *strongly* recommend using the GUI for this.  There are many
parameters, far too many to easily handle in a command-line
interface.  It can be done with a command-line interface, but it is
ugly.

The first thing to do is open a connection to the system.  Generally
you would be doing this on a local BMC (because the LAN is not
working), so I'll assume that. You can configure LAN remotely, with
the obvious risks.  Anyway, in the GUI, do File->Open Domain, select
"smi", and select 0 for the interface (assuming that's the one you
want).  Let the connection come up.  In openipmish, do:
  domain open local smi 0
and wait for it to come up.

Once up, you have 3 major configuration items:
   * Channel configuration
   * User configuration
   * LAN Parameters


CHANNEL CONFIGURATION
---------------------

Once your connection is up, you need to figure out what channels need
to be configured.  Systems with more than one Ethernet port will
generally have one channel for each port.  In this case, figuring out
which port goes to which channel is left as an exercise for the
reader.  You can list all the channels by right-clicking on the MC in
the GUI and choosing "Channel Info", or by doing:
  mc chan info <mc>
in ipmish.  You are looking for channels with a medium of 4, or
8023_LAN.

Once you have the channel(s), you need to enable them.  Iin the GUI,
open the tree for each channel you need to configure, and open up user
access.  There are two different user access setting, one is volatile
(and will be set immediately) the other is non-volatile (and will be
restored upon power-up).  You need to set both of them.  Enable "Per
Msg Auth", "User Auth", set the "Access Mode" to "ALWAYS", and set the
"Privilege Limit" to the limit you want, generally "admin".  Then
"Save" the configuration.  In openipmish, do "help mc chan" and follow
the instructions for the "set_access" command.


USER CONFIGURATION
------------------

After this, re-open the channel menu because you need that to get to
the user and LANPARM configuration.  Right click on each channel you
need to configure and choose "User Info".  You need to add a user for
each channel.  User 1 generally has no username and is a generic
user.  The other users can get a name set.  Unfortunately, there is no
way to fetch the "Enabled" or "Session Limit" values, so those will
show as "?" until you set them.  You need to set the name (if not user
1), "Enabled" to True, "Link Auth Enabled" to True, "Msg Auth Enabled"
to True, "Access Callback Only" to False, and the "Privilege Limit" to
the privilege you want, generally admin for full access.  To set the
password for a user, right click on the user's number and choose "Set
Password".  Passwords cannot be fetched or displayed in IPMI.

In openipmish, do "help mc chan user" and use these tools to set the
various settings listed above for a user

Note that on some systems, setting the user will fail unless you
explicitly set the "Session Limit" (this is a bug in their
implementation). so you might have to set that.  Zero disables it and
is generally a good choice.

LAN CONFIGURATION
-----------------

Once you have users configured, you are ready to configure LAN
setting.  Right-click on the channel again and choose "LANPARMS".
This pulls up a large list of settings.

There are several things you need to configure.  First you need to set
the ip_addr_source.  If it is DHCP, BIOS, or some other automatic
setting, that's fine.  If it is manually configured, you must set the
ip_addr and subnet_mask settings.

If you want the system to be accessible when off, you must set the
bmc_generated_arps and/or bmc_generated_garps to true.  You might have
to experiment to see which one works.

If you want to route through a router, you must set up the gateway IP
addresses and MAC addresses.

Last, but not least, you must set up the enables.  For LAN 1.5
(non-RMCP+) access, you must set the "enable_auth_xxx[privilege]"
values to the ones you want.  In general, md5 is the best you have
with LAN 1.5, so enable md5 and disable everything else, unless you
just want no access controls and enable "none".  You should enable it
for the privilege levels you want.

FOr RMCP+, you have to enable the cipher suites you are interested in.
The cipher suite entries are listed, you have to set the
"max_priv_for_cipher_suite" for the corresponding cipher suites you
want.  Again, these are privilege levels.

If you are using openipmish, use the "help lanparm" command and trace
down.  And good luck, you will need it.

ANYTHING ELSE
-------------

I think that is all, but I've probably missed something.
